Israel has repelled a massive Iranian
aerial attack but warns the campaign is
not over it's called for vigilance
Iran's First Direct attack on Israel
despite Decades of hostility utilized
more than 300 missiles and drones
there's been calm over Israel in the
wake of the barrage this is the live
view of Tel Aviv Israel had support in
intercepting the weapons from its allies
including the US UK and Jordan those
that got through had minimal
damage US President Joe Biden has said
he wants to coordinate a United
diplomatic response to Iran's attack at
a meeting of the G7 group of wealthy
Nations he intends to convene
tomorrow fleshes in the sky of
[Music]
Jerusalem this footage shows the
interception of missiles and drones
launched by Iran Israel says its defense
system shot down most of them in the
Sky last night Iran attacked Israel with
more than 300 weapons but our
technological and air superiority meant
that we were able to fend off this
assault together with a strong Coalition
we intercepted almost all of these
threats after the first ever direct
military attack on Israel from Iranian
territory US President Joe Biden spoke
with Israel prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu Biden reaffirmed what he
called America's Ironclad commitment to
the security of Israel and announced
plans to convene G7 leaders for a
coordinated diplomatic
response in tan prover Iranians took to
the streets to celebrate the wave of
strikes towards
Israel the Islamic revolutionary guard
Corps says the overnight assault was a
response to a deadly air strike an
Iranian diplomatic compound in Syria
earlier this month which killed several
of its most senior
commanders Iran's mission to the United
Nations wrote on social media that its
attack on Israel can be deemed
concluded of course Israel will react to
this attack but whatever they do our
brave men in the Revolutionary guard
will anticipate
it I do not think Israel will have an
answer to the attack if they respond
Iran will definitely also
respond but Israel says its
confrontation with Iran is not over and
the overnight escalation between two
longtime fors has once again increased
the threat of a fullscale regional
War Let's cross over to nofar galami
from DW's FY Department this is the
first time in a long history of
Confrontation that Iran has directly
attacked Israel as I mentioned before as
opposed to using proxies why would tan
take this step
now yes it is unprecedented because uh
so far there has been no direct
confrontation with Israel at this level
and one of the reason for this attack
was the regime's need to convince is uh
supporters who asked uh when will you
respond to the consulate attack in
addition uh since the day
ofman the the death of sumani the regime
had not taken any harsh Revenge that
they were talking about and um that
caused them to be ridiculed by a large
part of the people and uh many questions
from their supporters so of course there
was no Revenge at all but the type of
the attack um was similar to the attack
on anal Assad uh base so that is they
had informed about the uh this attack
and even White House was informed about
it but the regime wanted to calm down uh
their supporters questioning them they
think the US will not enter the conflict
but conflict but I think uh this is a
big gamble due to the current situation
uh and the condition after the October
7th attack by Hamas uh Israel must give
an aggressive response and everything
depends on this response and it may also
bring the US uh into uh into the war
another reason according to many was the
appeasement uh of the West with the
Islamic Republic uh experts believe that
the dispute mechanism must be activated
uh before and the irgc must be
designated as a terrorist group by the
EU and um adding to that with the policy
of the Biden Administration the isamic
Republic had an opportunity to uh sell
oil and save Financial Resources to
create more chaos in the region and we
saw for example uh that Iranian drones
were used in uh in the war um between
Russia and Ukraine and the regime
continued its attacks through proxy
forces and now it has attacked the um
Israel territory in an unprecedented way
so the vest should know that the Islamic
Republic will continue to destabilize
the region as long as it is allowed and
at the same time uh it will uh suppress
anyone opposing their strategy in inside
the country uh and this is why Iranian
pro-democracy activists have been
warning for years that peace and
security uh in the Middle East will
depend um on the destruction of the
Islamic Republic and the establishment
of a democratic uh regime in Iran well
Iran's leadership is now saying that any
Reckless Israeli move will prompt a
stronger
response tell me how prepared Iran is
for this conflict to
escalate um yes Iranian officials
including um Ali and irgc
commanders uh constantly warn Israel in
their statements um today and days
before and threaten the us for any
possible interference and it is certain
that Iran is vulnerable to Israel due to
the long distance between the two
countries uh and uh we have to consider
that Iran's internal condition should um
uh be also considered that economic and
social situation is critical uh and the
legitimacy of this regime has been
questioned for years so in addition the
Israeli front will not consist of just
one country but will be an International
Coalition against Iran and the Islamic
Republic uh will not have the slightest
chance I would say um but this question
is highlighted here to what extent does
the West uh sick confrontation with Iran
we must remember that Russia is now at a
war with Ukraine and Israel is also
fighting Hamas terrorist
group Army from DW's FY Department thank
you thank you for having
me I asked Middle East analyst Sena
spetlova what she thinks is behind
Iran's
attack well I think that it's quite
clear that Iran is basically in the same
game just like Israel it wants to
project power and it afrs that if it
will not retaliate for uh this incident
in Damascus where its top generals were
killed uh then uh in the eyes of the
rest of the Middle East uh where it
tries to build its proxy and its Camp uh
it will look weak so while uh Israel had
to act also to
achieve uh you know this projection of
power uh so was there the Iranian answer
uh and we saw that it was well you know
massive but also rather Limited in scope
uh if they wanted to inflict pain on
Israel they could do it through their
Proxes in Lebanon Syria in other
countries so a whole lot of military
posturing here is is what you're saying
you you served in the canes as
opposition until 2019 how far is
netanyahu's government willing to go in
a reaction
well you have to remember that Netanyahu
is not alone right now uh in his place
of decision- making uh there is uh uh a
quite popular and rather strong Minister
of Defense uh you have Galan who already
proved time and again Independence uh
and there is also Minister Benny Gans
who basically is a part of the
opposition who joined Nano only after
the tragic events of 107 uh so uh the
decision that he will be making he will
be making it along with this people and
therefore uh it's not only Nano and his
right-wing members of his Coalition uh
that will be deigning what will be the
scope of reaction if at all and uh I
assure you that uh it seems that uh uh
coordination between Israel and the US
is back on track uh and in this regard
we are expecting of course negotiation
in regards to any form of Israeli
reaction uh in Iran what about when it
comes to Israel's allly calls for
restraint
though well uh it's natural that now you
know the whole of the Middle East uh is
um very worried uh and uh we know that
even uh sometimes uh simpler steps you
know they can bring along major Wars uh
I just have to remind that the killing
the assassination attempt on Israeli
Ambassador in London in
1982 uh caused the war in Lebanon uh
June 1982 uh so therefore I think that
Israeli uh allies uh at the same time
while you know they were fighting uh
shoulder-to-shoulder along with the
Israelis uh Israeli Fighters Israeli
Jets uh and they proved resilience of
this uh Alliance uh yesterday at the
same time nobody is interested in this
large Regional War uh not the Iranians
themselves but of course uh not partners
of Israel and I think that Israel of
course should be attentive uh to the
voices of its close allies that again uh
proved that the nature of their
relations Is much stronger that it
sometimes look through the TV screens
but so far prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has not been listening to his
allies um tell me then how dependent is
Israel on its allies can it afford to
continue to
ignore well I think that uh you know we
are entered into very different
territory uh than until recently you
know while Nan feels that he is perhaps
not obliged to listen to basically
anybody not only Middle Eastern allies
but also strong International allies
such as United States Germany and the UK
uh when you know we enter this Uncharted
Territory uh the direct blows between
Israel and Iran uh this is a whole
different story and uh we know from the
past uh that uh you know while n it's
point maybe was inclining to some kind
of blow against the Iran he knew that
it's impossible to be done without
strong American support and involvement
uh so therefore if we are talking about
you know further escalation that can
bring alone you know this Regional War
uh I think that even for Nan and again
he's ready to go very far uh in many
different spheres such as Gaza of course
but not for example in the north where
Iranian proxy kbal is involved uh and we
see that for the last six month there is
this very delicate game of the balance
act uh that is going on and the same I
think will happen right now also Vis A
Iran tya then tell me how worried are
you about a possible
escalation well uh as an Israeli as a
mother who spent last night it was a
sleepless night I was uh not affected by
myself you know by the uh attack in my
area in the center of Israel there were
no Sirens going on but of course you
know I was following up and we prepared
our shelter and I was thinking how I
going to drag three of my kids uh to the
shelter in the middle of the night I am
very worried uh and uh I am very worried
about everything that is happening in
our country uh since the barbaric attack
of Hamas of 107 I worried about our
further relations you know with moderate
Palestinians because we should be uh
promoting them and focusing on the
relations with moderate Ians moderate
Arab countries and strengthening the
alliance between all of them and for now
it seems as almost impossible task but
we should not give up on that t thank
you for being here on
DW thank
you Mark Kanan is senior adviser with
the center for strategic and
International Studies an unprecedented
Iranian attack here but limited damage
to Israel is this a major escalation or
a symbol of of sorts
then well it's really both uh on the one
hand the fact that that Iran has
directly struck Israel um is
unprecedented uh it has always in the
past acted through proxies so that's an
escalation that's something quite
unusual on the other hand of course
there has not been very much damage so
that puts less pressure on the Israelis
the uh this is not a situation like
October 7th I think that the Israelis
will feel the need to do something in
response but nothing as dramatic nothing
as large as of course what they've done
uh in Gaza so what damage could Iran
do well Iran has a lot of missiles and
particularly they have ballistic
missiles which are harder uh to stop now
the Israelis have a complete set of air
defense weapons and missile defense
weapons they've been expecting this kind
of attack for 20 years but ballistic
missiles are more difficult to intercept
they have maybe a high higher uh
probability of getting through and
causing damage so the the Iranians do
have some capabilities that they could
employ drones as
well and of course they have drones yes
but the drones have been shown uh to be
susceptible to air defenses how isolated
would you say Iran is when it comes to
its Arab Navy
well Iran is clearly quite isolated now
the there Arab n neighbors have always
been nervous about Iran you know this is
a tension that goes back centuries
between the Persians and the Arabs uh
the aggressive stance of Iran uh against
Arab countries they've struck several of
them in the past uh so this is uh just
increasing their
nervousness where do you stand on
Israel's uh next response if there's
going to be retaliation or not or or a
step
back well what we've heard from the
previous commentators is two themes one
is that the Israelis will probably do
something uh that's very typical of
Israel you hit them they'll hit you back
on the other hand the damage has not
been very significant so I think they
might go after some targets where
they're well not many casualties
certainly not civilian casualties a
military Airfield would be CL a classic
one maybe the production facility for
drones they might have to go might go
after some of the Iranian Naval
capabilities the Iranians of course have
captured a ship in the uh Gulf and uh
the Israelis might go after some of
those uh Naval capabilities is also been
a Iranian ship in the Red Sea that has
been giving targeting information to the
houthis they might go after that also
and Mark what sort of response would
those options
draw it's hard to say you know if the uh
you know the hope is that the Israelis
make you know their counter and then
both sides sort of step back the
Iranians as we've heard don't want a
larger War uh before this they had been
talking about deescalation they had
pulled the houthis back a bit for
example so one hopes that whatever the
Israelis do uh you know it's limited and
the Iranians can sort of walk away
that's certainly what the United States
is saying the United States has been
very clear that it will not participate
in any any um attacks on Iran or any
counters but it's likely giving both
advice and maybe some intelligence to
the Israelis to help shape this
response and I'd like to get more on
what's happened overnight from Marina
Moran from the war studies department at
King's College London welcome back to
the show Israel has said that Iran fired
170 drones can you tell us what kind of
drones we are dealing with
here good morning well we can only guess
here um the fact that some drones U came
allegedly from Iran that they would have
to fly about 2,000 kilometers so those
could have been the moer 10 drones and
then there were other drones coming from
Iraq coming from sou Lebanon and coming
from Yemen it could have been another
type maybe some of them could have been
the Shahid 136 the drones that the
Russians are using in Ukraine but there
is no certainty in terms of whether it
was one kind of drones or several kinds
of drones and which specific drones Iran
has used is it possible to say if they
had hit their targets what kind of
damage they would have been able to
do again and here we have to speculate
it depends on the target how well the
target is protected on the one hand and
you know just just to um talk about
Shahid we see that the kind of damage
that they can do in Ukraine but they
don't hit the target by one usually they
are in pairs and again it depends on the
target if it's a civilian building or if
it's a military installation which will
be much uh better protected to withstand
such damage and the moer 10 for instance
has about um 300 kg of explosive so
that's the the payload of that drone so
it would be much more powerful and in
other
words some of the drones coming through
might have done just enough damage to
military installations but I don't think
that um you know speculating again there
would have been serious damage given
that Israel was prepared and actually
managed to neutralize together with its
allies most of the drones and missiles
shot yeah let's talk more about that so
we understand these were intercepted by
Israel and the United States can you
tell us a little bit about the logistics
of of how they would have gone about
intercepting this
attack well the Israeli used obviously
their air defense system the Iron Dome
then um ARF so Royal Air Force from the
United Kingdom was also helping to shoot
down RS and missiles from the air the US
has um deployed its warship so one
warship was already there another
warship was was rerouted and the
warships have the egis um system in
order to intercept um targets so those
were used to intercept drones so the
Israeli IDF worked in coordination with
the United States and um the UK and also
allegedly France FR and some other
countries like Jordan were also involved
and um some say that Saudi Arabia was
also helping to neutralize some of the
drones so it was a joint effort in order
to defend against the drones and
missiles that came in now Marina you
mentioned that after these drones were
launched it took several hours for them
to reach their targets let's take a
closer look at this timing how important
do you think it was that we had this
time frame in order to provide is Israel
and its Partners enough time to
intervene I think it's a critical point
because if you're launching an attack
which you want to succeed you certainly
don't give any prior warning and you
don't give your adversary that time
frame so the the effect of surprise is
completely taken out of the equation
here and what I'm thinking is that
Israel raised the stakes um in a certain
way was the Damascus strike and some us
officials indeed confirmed that that
that was an Israeli
strike and Iran had no choice but to
respond so there was mounting pressure
inside Iran itself to respond from its
own soil not to use its proxies or maybe
to use its proxies as well but to
demonstrate clearly that Iran is not
happy about Israel attacking it on on
what is considered be its territory so
what I'm thinking for Iran Iran doesn't
want a regional war and is it do Israel
so you have to raise the stakes just a
tiny bit in order to basically do
something so show a response show your
willingness to respond but in such a way
that the other party doesn't have a lot
of good options to retaliate and so now
um Iran has launched his barrage of
drones and missiles along with its
proxies but Israel intercepted them all
because they knew well ahead they could
prepare and coordinate with the Allies
so from from both
perspectives everything is satisfied
Israel can claim that they have
successfully defended against the
Iranian attack and that makes it very
difficult for Israel now to raise the
stakes what will be the next response to
Iran will Israel actually strike the U
military sites in Iran and um the US
Administration is very afraid of this so
it's a very interesting strategic game
here and I I think this was more of a
show of force more of kind of a gunboat
diplomacy rather than an actual attack
aimed at destroying something and we can
get some analysis now from Mike Martin
War studies senior fellow at Kings
College London welcome back to DW what
do you think last night's attack reveals
about Iran's evolving military
capabilities
actually Claire is pretty much what we'd
expect so large part of the attack was
Shahed drones we've seen lots of those
in Ukraine the Iranians gave load to the
Russians and then on the ballistic
missile front the cruise missile front
we've got a pretty good idea of what
capabilities Iran has from various tests
that they've conducted and so actually
what we saw last night was pretty much
exactly what we expected in terms of
falling within Iran
technological envelope if you like what
they're able to
do now given the relatively limited
damage do you think that Iran's attack
was then calculated to cause uh
relatively limited damage while
displaying strength or could this Force
Israel to
retaliate I I I think you've hit the
nail on the head there you as you said
in your package this was in response to
the Israeli attack on the uh Iranian
consulate and Iran had to respond to
that and the question was how it
responded and actually Iran could have
done much more damage to Israel uh
perhaps by using some of its proxies
nearer to Israel but as it was launching
quite slow moving drones that were able
to be shot down in Jordanian airspace
and as well signaling the attack for up
to a week in advance this was for the
Iranian domestic audience and to its
proxy allies in the region to demonst
that Iran wasn't going to be pushed
around but equally both Iran and America
have signaled that they want to consider
the matter closed now they do not want
to escalate this any further does this
also have to do the successful Downing
of of what an Israeli military
spokesperson says was
99% of the drones and missiles fired
does this also have to do with Israel's
uh capabilities here why else would it
have been so successful
so it wasn't just the Israelis right the
the Israelis shot down a lot of the
missiles once they entered Israeli
airspace and we've seen the photos in
your package just then but actually a
lot of the slower moving drones and in
numerical terms the drones took up the
large part of the attack they were shot
down predominantly by the US Air Force
uh and also other allies Jordan and
potentially the UK as well now the
Americans have got the most the large
and most technologically advanced Air
Force in the world and the Israelis have
the most advanced air defense system in
the world so I actually don't think it's
that surprising with an attack that they
had a week's notice of that they were
able to plan prepare preposition air
frames get the defenses ready and then
deal with the attack in a fairly
comprehensive manner I think to be
honest both sides Iran and America and
Israel as well really what happened last
night was to be expected I think all
sides were expecting to happen what
happened and then it happened and now I
think we're going to go back to
something slightly more steady state
between the two sides because nobody
wants to escalate Beyond really what was
a demonstration last night so Mike just
briefly before I let you go what do you
think then Israel might be considering
in terms of a possible response what
options would be on the table for
them well
it is the wild card because Netanyahu um
is more Reckless than the US and Iran
but if Iran is being sensible sorry if
Israel's being sensible what it will do
is keep its response within the way
America sees the region so perhaps
attacking Iran's nuclear facilities and
that will enable Israel to keep its
response within how the Americans see
the region thank you so much as always
that is Mike Martin War studies senior
fellow at Kings College London
thank
you so let's get into some specifics of
what Iran has used in this attack Arthur
Holland Michelle is an expert on drones
with the Carnegie Council for ethics in
international Affairs we've just heard
there that drones did form a large part
of this attack could you tell us what
kind of drones Iran has in its Arsenal
and whether it's clear what was used in
this particular incident
sure good morning it's great to be here
so um Iran actually has a very diverse
uh drone program they have I believe
about a dozen different types of drones
that can be used in sort of weaponized
missil suicide styled attacks um
unfortunately I I've been on the road
and I haven't been able to um you know
look into any of the analysis of the
actual attack um and the evidence that
we have which is presumably very thin
from last night
but uh keeping in mind the ranges of
these attacks it was probably some of
the larger suicide drones so these are
faster moving jet powered in some cases
propeller powered uh systems that have a
warhead of anywhere between sort of 50
to maybe like 200 um pounds tell us a
little bit more if you can about Iran's
drone program has the threat from it
been increasing in recent
years it certainly has an important
thing to know about Iran's drone program
is actually it's one of the oldest drone
programs in the world Iran has been
making drones since the 1980s and in
that respect they got a a big head start
over a lot of other countries including
some of uh their ad adversaries um the
threat has definitely been increasing in
in recent years as a result of recent
technological advances in things like
sensors miniaturization of Power Systems
uh they're able to produce more
sophisticated more precise drones and to
produce them in higher quantities but an
important caveat to that is that each
time Iran carries out uh an attack
especially an attack on say US forces or
uh uh in this case on Israel that gives
uh The Defenders information about how
to better counter this threat I think
that if we had seen an attack of this
scale 5 years ago we wouldn't have seen
the same numbers of shootdowns that we
saw last night you know these amazing
figures of 99% interception rate and so
that is a kind of counterweight to this
idea that Iran the the Drone threat is
sort of going to only grow exponentially
in in the years ahead it's always a cat-
and mouse game so the attacks themselves
revealing its capabilities I guess my
next question would be then how it was
possible for Iran to become such a a
global drone Powerhouse despite Western
sanctions well again it's um you know it
was this early bet that they made to get
into the you know to get into the the
the field of Technology um really before
people were actually taking it uh very
very seriously also keeping in mind that
drones as compared to say missiles don't
necessarily require incredibly
sophisticated components you know you
you don't need NE necessarily like a
very expensive rocket system the kind of
system that might be subject to
sanctions or trade restrictions um you
might just have a propeller something
that is as simple as what you can buy
for a hobby plane and in that regard
they sort of made this very very um
presant bet that going low going small
you know going simple could actually be
a payoff because a lot of the defense
systems that were developed were for you
know Big Rock ET powered systems
aircraft and such and so being able to
fly under the radar was a bit of a hole
in that Arthur thank you so much for
joining us today that is Arthur Holland
Michelle senior fellow at the Carnegie
Council for ethics and international
affairs